Docs for `sentry-graphql-22` (#12259)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/java/common/integrations/graphql22.mdx

---
title: GraphQL Java 22 Integration
description: "Learn how to capture exceptions and about the performance of queries executed with GraphQL Java (Version 22)."
notSupported:
  - java.logback
  - java.log4j2
  - java.jul
---

Sentry's [GraphQL Java](https://github.com/graphql-java/graphql-java/) integration is provided through:

- `SentryGenericDataFetcherExceptionHandler`, which checks for exceptions thrown during data fetcher executions and then passes them to `SentryInstrumentation`.
- `SentryInstrumentation`, which creates spans around each data fetcher execution, captures exceptions, and adds breadcrumbs.

Our GraphQL integration can be configured automatically if you're using `spring-graphql` with either the `sentry-spring-boot-starter` or the `sentry-spring-boot-jakarta-starter` integration.

<Note>

> If you are using version 21 or older of `graphql-java`, please refer to <PlatformLink to="/integrations/graphql/">GraphQL docs</PlatformLink>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using version 21 or older of `graphql-java`, please refer to <PlatformLink to="/integrations/graphql/">GraphQL docs</PlatformLink>.
```

</Note>

## Install

To install use:

```groovy {tabTitle:Gradle Plugin}
plugins {
  id "io.sentry.jvm.gradle" version "{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.android.gradle-plugin', '3.12.0') }}"
}
```

```groovy {tabTitle:Gradle}
implementation 'io.sentry:sentry-graphql-22:{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.graphql-22', '8.0.0') }}'
```

```xml {tabTitle:Maven}
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.sentry</groupId>
    <artifactId>sentry-graphql-22</artifactId>
    <version>{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.graphql-22', '8.0.0') }}</version>
</dependency>
```

```scala {tabTitle: SBT}
libraryDependencies += "io.sentry" % "sentry-graphql-22" % "{{@inject packages.version('sentry.java.graphql-22', '8.0.0') }}"
```

For other dependency managers, check out the [central Maven repository](https://search.maven.org/artifact/io.sentry/sentry-graphql).

## Set Up

When building a `GraphQL` instance:

> - set `defaultDataFetcherExceptionHandler` to an instance of `SentryGenericDataFetcherExceptionHandler` and pass the delegate that handles the exception to the constructor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- set `defaultDataFetcherExceptionHandler` to an instance of `SentryGenericDataFetcherExceptionHandler` and pass the delegate that handles the exception to the constructor.
```

> - set `instrumentation` to an instance of `SentryInstrumentation`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- set `instrumentation` to an instance of `SentryInstrumentation.`
```
